Instant Messaging Systems
-------------------------

<span>IM</span>

### General server configuration recommendations

For servers, we mostly recommend to apply what’s proposed by the
*Peter’s manifesto*[^32].

In short:

require the use of TLS for both client-to-server and server-to-server
connections

prefer or require TLS cipher suites that enable forward secrecy

deploy certificates issued by well-known and widely-deployed
certification authorities (CAs)

The last point being out-of-scope for this section, we will only cover
the first two points.

### ejabberd

#### Tested with Versions

ejabberd 14.12, Debian 7 Wheezy

ejabberd 14.12, Ubuntu 14.04 Trusty

ejabberd 15.03, Ubuntu 14.04 Trusty

ejabberd 16.01, Ubuntu 14.04 Trusty

#### Settings

ejabberd is one of the popular Jabber servers. In order to be compliant
with the manifesto, you should adapt your configuration[^33]:

#### Additional settings

It is possible to explicitly specify a cipher string for TLS
connections.

Note that we are setting the SSL option `cipher_server_preference`. This
enforces our cipher order when negotiating which ciphers are used, as
the cipher order of some clients chooses weak ciphers over stronger
ciphers.[^34]

Starting with version 15.03[^35], it is possible to use custom
Diffie-Hellman-Parameters. This allows us to negotiate stronger
Diffie-Hellman-keys, and also helps us avoid problems with using common
Diffie-Hellman-Parameters.[^36] You can generate your own parameter file
by running:

    openssl dhparam -out dhparams.pem 4096

By default, ejabberd provides an administration website (look for the
ejabberd\_http module). Enable TLS protection for it like this:

#### Tested with Versions

Debian Wheezy 2.1.10-4+deb7u1

#### Settings

Older versions of ejabberd use a different configuration file syntax. In
order to be compliant with the manifesto, you should adapt your
configuration[^37] as follows:

#### Additional settings

Older versions of ejabberd ($ < $ 2.0.0) need to be patched[^38] to be
able to parse all of the certificates in the CA chain. Specifying a
custom cipher string is only possible starting with version 13.12 (see
configuration for version 14.12 above).

#### References

-   [The ejabberd documentation:
    http://www.process-one.net/en/ejabberd/docs/](http://www.process-one.net/en/ejabberd/docs/)

#### How to test

<https://xmpp.net> is a useful website to test Jabber server
configurations.

### Chat privacy - Off-the-Record Messaging (OTR)

The OTR protocol works on top of the Jabber protocol[^39]. It adds to
popular chat clients (Adium, Pidgin...) the following properties for
encrypted chats:

Authentication

Integrity

Confidentiality

Forward secrecy

It basically uses Diffie-Hellman, AES and SHA1. Communicating over an
insecure instant messaging network, OTR can be used for end to end
encryption.

There are no specific configurations required but the protocol itself is
worth to be mentioned.

### Charybdis

There are numerous implementations of IRC servers. In this section, we
choose *Charybdis* which serves as basis for *ircd-seven*[^40],
developed and used by freenode. Freenode is actually the biggest IRC
network[^41]. *Charybdis* is part of the *Debian* & *Ubuntu*
distributions.

### SILC

SILC[^42] is instant messaging protocol publicly released in 2000. SILC
is a per-default secure chat protocol thanks to a generalized usage of
symmetric encryption. Keys are generated by the server meaning that if
compromised, communication could be compromised.

The protocol is not really popular anymore.
